This is going to be probably the
last video in the HTML section.
We have done pretty good job in the learning the HTML
and quite a fast pace as well.
But don't worry if you feel anything is missing or you
need some more explanation on any topic at all, just reach
me out either on Twitter or LinkedIn and I'll add more
content if it is required or if it is necessary.
The whole point of this entire section is to
make sure that you get comfortable with HTML and
nobody can learn everything on just one go.
But we have still some of the topics that we
can discuss and I can show you some of the
power that you can actually have in the, in the
HTML and can do a little bit more on that,
especially the part of semantics, adding some of the media
content and some of the ARIA labels as well.
So we have a lot to cover and it's going to be all fun.
This video is moreover going to be a study part.
Together we'll figure out some documentation.
I'll walk you through with some of the
exercises, some of the other websites which are
useful and moreover general in talk.
So stay down a little bit low, you can enjoy.
This is not going to be a code heavy centric video.
We will do that later on in the course.
But right now this is enough.
Let me go ahead and share some of the data up here.
So we have gone through with all of this and this
is all okay, and I'll create a new file just because
I want to show you some of the more fun stuff.
And we'll be working with that.
Let's call this one as media HTML.
So as soon as I go ahead and add a
media HTML, let's go ahead and the basics and let's
call this one as simply media, not media.
There we go.
And why not?
Let's just add an h one.
This is media learning.
It's not just a media learning.
There's so much more that I want
to go through and work with that.
Now, one thing which I want to go through here is
some of the elements here on the left hand side.
So let me just go ahead and move this a little bit
so that we can all see it together and work with that.
So if I go ahead and say get started with
the web, this is all that we have gone through.
We will learn quite a lot in here as well.
If I go ahead and open up the introduction to HTML.
Yes, we have studied a lot, but just
apart from introduction to HTML, there is media,
there is tables, there's CSS, there's JavaScript.
No, we're not going to study
the CSS and JavaScript from here. Very confusing.
We'll be learning it from a different resource.
But what I want to go through with
this is first of all, this multimedia.
If you go ahead and look onto the multimedia, so
far we have learned that how we can add images,
adding images in any web page is fairly easy.
And most of the time this is the code that we have
seen images with a source and then there is an alt.
Let's go ahead and figure out how
we can actually learn and see that.
So we have already gone through that.
I can have an image tag and inside this I can
go into the images folder and can use etc PNG.
This image is fairly big, so we'll just go ahead and
add a width attribute of, let's just say 200 pixel is
good enough, so we'll just add a 200 pixel.
This alt is an alternative tag in
the case where images couldn't load up.
So I'll just go ahead and say profile photo and
for some reason this image is called as hc.png,
but somehow you have saved it as scc.png.
That's obviously a typo, a mistake, or maybe due to some
reason server was not able to give you the image.
If I go ahead and right click and open this up
in the live server, notice here it says profile photo.
But as soon as this image actually sees
a write path and it is able to
load that image, that alt tag goes away.
And sometimes you're going to figure out that
just below this you want to add a
paragraph or something that hey, some name like
this that's there, you can actually do that.
But in the world of HTML, there is always
a tiny bit better way of doing the things.
For example, if I go ahead and look for it, yes,
this is all that's written in a whole lot of documentation.
And this image, and by the way, in case you
missed it, yes, we can still add a title here
and then can go ahead and say hitesh.
If I go back onto this one and click
on this, hover over this, it says Hitesh.
So that is still there.
But what I want to show you is there is
more ways of how you can add images and there
are variety of images that you can also add.
Png, jpegs, svgs and each version of the
image has some pros and some cons.
Webp, there's so much of the format, but what
we're going to see here, if you actually scroll
a little bit more and that's a little bit
difficult to actually go through with.
This is there is another image tag that you can use.
It's rarely being used, but semantic
says you should be using it.
Oh man, give me this.
This is what it is.
So there's another image which you can
actually roll up the entire figure.
So I'll just copy this and we'll
see this here just below this Hitesh.
So what this tag actually does, this is a figure tag.
There we go.
This figure tag has this image tag, and
then we have a fig caption as well.
So this is a nice and interesting tag.
You can have an alt, we have
the width, height, all of these things.
I'll remove the height, we don't need it.
I'll also go ahead and add this one as just the 200.
And this is a really long
alt text, which can be anything.
But in this case, I'll just go ahead
and say, hey, we'll be adding images.
And inside that we'll be just going with hc.png.
Now in the fig caption, although it's a t
rex caption, but I'll keep it as it is
and I'll go back here and see what happens.
Notice here, this is little different.
And this whole thing is just one part, this image along
with the caption, this is considered as just one unit.
So this consideration is all the figure is.
And figure not only just have source, we
have more ways of loading the source.
If you go ahead and look for it,
there are more ways of adding the things.
There's even a source set.
And programmatically you can add multiple
images like pngs, jpegs, webp.
There's so much more optimization you can do.
But that optimization cannot be taught right here.
That needs to come in the JavaScript
section so that you can work more.
This optimization or this piece of code, again, I cannot
teach you right now because it's a CSS part.
I cannot involve CSS in the HTML
section, but you get the idea.
There is so much more to explore, not just the images.
If you go ahead and look for the video content, you
can actually go ahead and load the videos as well.
Notice here, here's the source code.
This is how you actually add the video.
Let's go ahead and try this out.
I've already added a video in the images section,
so let's go ahead and add a video and
see how it works and how it goes.
So for this, I'll just go ahead and add a video.
It's asking for a source.
So I'll go into the images and inside
that, this is the name of the video.
Let's go ahead and try to see how it looks like.
And it's pretty big video. You can see this? Yeah.
This whole black thing.
Yeah, that's, that's a video.
And how does this video works? No idea.
If I click on it, nothing happens.
So whenever there's a video tag, there is
an additional attribute that you have to inject.
And this attribute is known as controls.
So the moment I just add this controls just right here, notice
here now we have at the bottom, I can play the video,
I can stop the video, I have all these controls.
Further, we have studied with our previous
knowledge that we have this width attribute.
Can it be added to video?
Let's just try it.
We can just go ahead and say this one is
going to be 400 pixels, save this, come back here.
Yeah, it works nicely there.
As I said, videos and
everything are controls like that.
You can just click on it and say hey, there's
a download, there's a playback, there's a picture in picture.
Maybe I don't want picture in picture.
How can I avoid it for this?
Let's just study the video tag.
How does the video tag looks like? So there we go.
We can see there is a source, there's a controls.
Let's see if I click on the controls.
Oh, there's a control.
And can I see and get more attributes to the control?
Oh, there's a control list.
Let's see this.
So if I go ahead and look for it, yeah,
that's lot of definitions, lot of things going on.
This is moreover a part that I
can, I'm interested in control list.
And I can just copy this and
have all the things that I want.
Copy this, come back here.
And this is my control list.
No full screen, no download, no remote playback, some foobar
so I can have my custom controls as well.
But let's just say I don't want to
give a full screen option for some reason.
I can just go, this is how you learn.
And once you have learned it here, you
don't need to look back it again.
And there is only limited things that you have to go.
If I go back onto the media now, there is
no download option if I want to say no download,
so I can just go ahead and see this.
And now the download option, oops,
it was supposed to go sometime.
It doesn't work because it
requires a lot of JavaScript.
So I can just refresh it and click on it.
It still says download.
So probably we need to add more of it.
Let's see what's going on there.
So it's a controls list and we have to add
all of these, probably have to work with this.
Now some of these controls actually can
be injected only with the JavaScript.
Look at here, video attributes and
you can have the control list.
Some of them works, some of them doesn't work.
So we can actually control a
lot of things with the programming.
The whole idea behind showing you all of this is that
hey, there's so much more that we can go ahead and
work on with this, not just the video, but there's so
much more that we can actually go ahead.
Similarly, we can go ahead and learn about the audio.
How can we add that?
So whenever you need that audio, whenever you
need that video, that is the time when
you actually go ahead and study about them.
That is the point where you learn about them.
And as we go through, we have enough of projects in
the JavaScript and in the CSS and in the react and
all these things that you'll be feeling much more comfortable.
So don't worry too much about it.
So notice here there's a video controls.
We can have multiple sources.
There's so much more that we can do up here.
So this is the basics, this is the part
one of how you can have these images, videos
and audios and all of these things.
One more thing that I would like to
walk you through with this, although we have
covered pretty much almost that is required.
But there is also one more thing that you'll hear
quite a lot, which is known as Aria tags.
Now ArIa tags are totally and totally
associated with the accessibility notice here it
says accessible rich Internet application.
Yeah, that's the full form of Aria.
So if you want to make any web application very rich
so that any device can actually operate and any device can
serve that, that's where you take care of the aria.
This is a research field on its own and
there are engineers who are dedicated just for ARIA.
So that application is accessible on all platform.
It's a separate job role on its own, but we
cannot do all of this, but we will try to
see at least a little bit of it.
Notice here, these are all ARIA
labels, these are just attributes.
So role progress bar.
So it expects that every element that you are
putting up here needs to have some kind of
a role, some kind of Aria label so that
all the readers can actually read here.
So notice here the ids, the references,
there's so much more to learn about
them and there's even a guidelines.
So whenever you're making any application which is centric
towards banking application or government websites, this is the
part where we come and study about it.
Can somebody access the entire
website just with a keyboard?
Can somebody access it through
the speech recognization software?
And so much more.
And again, you don't need to go much about it,
but I want to give you a healthy information that
hey, there's so much more to learn about it.
And yes, there are people and there are still workshops
which happens on the HTML itself and people study, learn
one or two things in that as well.
But for you, you don't need to do that.
There is no point of going too much
in depth of HTML as of now.
All you need to know right now is that yes, there is
an aria, I can study more about it if it is required.
Yes there are videos and audio controls, I
can learn more about it if needed.
I know there are images.
There are two ways of handling the
images, the image tag or figure tag.
I'll figure out when I need it and I'll just use that.
Rest of the things are pretty easy.
We now know that there are headings, the
list, the tables, the forms, these are the
major ones that you will be interacting.
But if there is something more that needed or is
required, we will definitely come back and learn about it.
That's what we are going to do in the
CSS and then in JavaScript, then again in react
and then again in some other things.
So I think we can call it a day.
HTML is all done and I think that
is all the good part about it.
And go ahead and practice a little bit more.
We have a dedicated section for you where we have
some practice exercise, some coding exercise where you can try
and write some of the HTML on your own.
I highly recommend to write it in the code
editor so that you get feel you learn some
of the keyboard shortcuts and go through with that.
But I guess that's it.
If you need anything more you can
just always come back onto the MDN.
And as you have seen, this documentation is much more
verbose, much more in depth, so that it teaches you
everything and anything that you need to know about it.
Again, it looks a little bit complex
compared to the W three schools, but
the information here is much, much bigger.
So go ahead and search
for HTML, hypertext, markup language.
Come back here if you need anything.
For example, you want to find out
how many global attributes are there.
Just click on it and see
Access keys to ids items.
Some of them we have studied about like title.
We have studied this one, but
yes, there are so many more.
But yeah, you get the point that this
is all enough for us right now.
Alright, this was a good discussion with you about
the HTML and we'll call this section a day.
Yes, congratulations.
You have finished a section.
You're feeling tiny bit comfortable and okay ish with
the HTML part and that's a good sign.
You are moving into a really big
territory and that's okay HTML part.
Let's consider it is as done and if you have
finished till here, go ahead, tweet out, take a screenshot
or take a photo, take a selfie and tweet me
out that hey, we are studying from your resource and
we are done with the HTML part.
It would be a good motivator for
you and for me as well.
That's it for this video.
Let's catch you up in the next one.